analytics/catalogue-analytics/overview.md, before:

---
layout: section
category: analytics
analytics_category: catalogue
title: Overview
weight: 1
---

## Catalogue Analytics

### What do we mean by "catalogue analytics"?

If you are an online retailer, or run an media website, an integral part of your digital offering is your digital "catalogue": which contains products for sale (in the case of the retailer) or content (in the case of the media company), that may be in a variety of formats (articles, podcasts, videos etc).

### Why perform catalogue analytics?

Understanding how users engage with each item of content or each product in your catalogue, and how effectively your website enables users to navigate and engage with that content is essential to improving your digital proposition. It enables you to:

1. **Choose better items for your catalogue**. (Source better items for your online shop, if you're a retailer, or produce / commission more relevant content, for media sites.)
2. **Organise your catalogue items more effectively**. You can use Snowplow data to understand which items are interesting to which users, which items are interesting to most users, and use that to drive which products are displayed most prominently. (Even tailoring your approach to individual audience segments and individual users.)
3. **Optimise your existing content**: by tweaking prices, improving the layout etc.

In this section of the [analytics cookbook] [analytics-cookbook], we outline a range of recipes to perform catalogue analytics.

### Catalogue analytics recipes

1. [Measuring the effectiveness of your product pages] [product-pages]
2. [Measuring how deeply users engage with content pages] [content-pages]
3. More coming soon...

[analytics-cookbook]: /analytics/index.html
[product-pages]: /analytics/catalogue-analytics/measuring-and-comparing-product-page-performance.html
[content-pages]: /analytics/catalogue-analytics/measuring-and-comparing-content-page-performance.html

Commit message:

Renamed to catalog from catalogue

analytics/catalogue-analytics/overview.md, after:

---
layout: section
category: analytics
analytics_category: catalog
title: Overview
weight: 1
---

## Catalog Analytics

### What do we mean by "catalog analytics"?

If you are an online retailer, or run an media website, an integral part of your digital offering is your digital "catalog". The contents of your online catalog will vary depending on what industry you are in:

* If you are a retailer, your catalog is the collection of products you are selling
* If you are a media publisher, your catalog is your collection of content items, potentially in a variety of formats (articles, podcasts, videos etc)
* If you are an affiliate or deals site, your catalog is the collection of links or offers available

Catalog analytics, then, is the set of analyses you can run across the items in your digital catalog to understand:

1. How well each item is performing and how well they are performing relative to one another
2. How effectively you are organizing your items (e.g. into categories and collections) within your catalog
3. How effectively you are tailoring items to individual customers and segments of customers

### Why perform catalog analytics?

Understanding how users engage with each item of content or each product in your catalog, and how effectively your website enables users to navigate and engage with that content is essential to improving your digital proposition. It enables you to:

1. **Choose better items for your catalog:** source better items for your online shop if you're a retailer, or produce/commission more relevant content, if you are a media publisher
2. **Organise your catalog items more effectively:** you can use Snowplow data to understand which items are interesting to which users, which items are interesting to most users, and use that to drive which products are displayed most prominently - even tailoring your approach to individual audience segments and individual users
3. **Optimise your existing content:**: by tweaking prices, improving the layout etc

In this section of the [analytics cookbook] [analytics-cookbook], we outline a range of recipes you can use to perform catalog analytics.

### Catalog analytics recipes

1. [Measuring the effectiveness of your product pages] [product-pages]
2. [Measuring how deeply users engage with content pages] [content-pages]
3. More coming soon...

[analytics-cookbook]: /analytics/index.html
[product-pages]: /analytics/catalog-analytics/measuring-and-comparing-product-page-performance.html
[content-pages]: /analytics/catalog-analytics/measuring-and-comparing-content-page-performance.html
