services/custom-development.md, before:

---
layout: section
category: services
title: Custom Development
weight: 5
---

# Custom development of SnowPlow

SnowPlow has been [architected] [technical-architecture] to be as extensible as possible. Indeed, one of the primary motivations for us in keeping SnowPlow open source is to encourage developers to extend it in multiple directions. Those directions include:

1. Building mobile and other app clients 
2. Building real-time collectors
3. Giving website audience control over what data is and is not captured by SnowPlow
4. Building machine learning algorithms that use SnowPlow data to do content recommendation and personalisation

If there's a specific piece of functionality from SnowPlow that SnowPlow doesn't include today, our Professional Services team can in many cases develop it for you.

There are two costing models that we apply for custom-development:

1. Where the output of the development will be proprietary technology owned and operated by the client, we charge for the development based on our [rate card] [rate-card]
2. Where the output of the development will be contributed back to the open source community, we charge for the development at a significantly reduced rate. Where we co-develop features that are highly prized by the open source community, we are often willing to work with clients pro bono

## Learn more

* [Get in touch] [get-in-touch] with the SnowPlow team to discuss your project
* Find out about our other professional services, including [analytics services] [analytics], [report design and implementation] [reporting] and [custom development] [custom-dev].

[reporting]: reporting.html
[get-in-touch]: /contact/index.html
[analytics]: analytics.html
[implementation]: implementation.html
[custom-dev]: custom-development.html
[rate-card]: rate-card.html

[technical-architecture]: /product/technical-architecture.html

Commit message:

Got rid of CamelCase spelling of SnowPlow -> Snowplow Removed fixed price quotes for Javascript tagging Fixed bugs in impelmentation page on pro services

services/custom-development.md, after:

---
layout: section
category: services
title: Custom Development
weight: 5
---

# Custom development of Snowplow

Snowplow has been [architected] [technical-architecture] to be as extensible as possible. Indeed, one of the primary motivations for us in keeping Snowplow open source is to encourage developers to extend it in multiple directions. Those directions include:

1. Building mobile and other app clients 
2. Building real-time collectors
3. Giving website audience control over what data is and is not captured by Snowplow
4. Building machine learning algorithms that use Snowplow data to do content recommendation and personalisation

If there's a specific piece of functionality from Snowplow that Snowplow doesn't include today, our Professional Services team can in many cases develop it for you.

There are two costing models that we apply for custom-development:

1. Where the output of the development will be proprietary technology owned and operated by the client, we charge for the development based on our [rate card] [rate-card]
2. Where the output of the development will be contributed back to the open source community, we charge for the development at a significantly reduced rate. Where we co-develop features that are highly prized by the open source community, we are often willing to work with clients pro bono

## Learn more

* [Get in touch] [get-in-touch] with the Snowplow team to discuss your project
* Find out about our other professional services, including [analytics services] [analytics], [report design and implementation] [reporting] and [custom development] [custom-dev].

[reporting]: reporting.html
[get-in-touch]: /contact/index.html
[analytics]: analytics.html
[implementation]: implementation.html
[custom-dev]: custom-development.html
[rate-card]: rate-card.html

[technical-architecture]: /product/technical-architecture.html
