services/index.md, before:

---
layout: section
category: services
title: Overview
weight: 1
---

# SnowPlow Professional Services

The SnowPlow team works with clients on four different types of SnowPlow-related projects:

1. [Analytics projects] [analytics]. Have a specific business question that you'd like to answer using your customer / platform / catalogue data? The SnowPlow team can work with you to frame your question and use your data (incl. web analtyics) data to answer it
2. [Report design and implementation] [reporting]. What are the most important KPIs to monitor as you work towards reaching a mid-long term goal? The SnowPlow team can help you develop a small number of specific KPIs and actionable reports, to keep your business moving in the right direction
3. [SnowPlow implementation] [implementation]. We can help you implement SnowPlow, by identifying all the relevant actions you should be tracking (and capturing via the SnowPlow tags), and working with your technical team to implement the SnowPlow infrastructure
4. [Custom development] [custom-dev]. Require an extension to the core SnowPlow features set? We work with clients to extend SnowPlow to meet their specific needs

[Get in touch] [get-in-touch] with the SnowPlow team to discuss your project needs. View our [rate card] [rate-card] for pricing details. 

### Other sources of SnowPlow support

As well as supporting clients through our professional services team, we provide lower-level, ad hoc support via

1. Our [Google group] [google-group]
2. The SnowPlow [Github repository] [github-repo]. (For technical issues / bug reporting)

[Learn more][analytics] about SnowPlow Professional Services.

[analytics]: analytics.html
[reporting]: reporting.html
[implementation]: implementation.html
[custom-dev]: custom-development.html
[rate-card]: rate-card.html
[google-group]: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/snowplow-user
[github-repo]: http://github.com/snowplow/snowplow
[get-in-touch]: /contact/index.html

Commit message:

Got rid of CamelCase spelling of SnowPlow -> Snowplow Removed fixed price quotes for Javascript tagging Fixed bugs in impelmentation page on pro services

services/index.md, after:

---
layout: section
category: services
title: Overview
weight: 1
---

# Snowplow Professional Services

The Snowplow team works with clients on four different types of Snowplow-related projects:

1. [Analytics projects] [analytics]. Have a specific business question that you'd like to answer using your customer / platform / catalogue data? The Snowplow team can work with you to frame your question and use your data (incl. web analtyics) data to answer it
2. [Report design and implementation] [reporting]. What are the most important KPIs to monitor as you work towards reaching a mid-long term goal? The Snowplow team can help you develop a small number of specific KPIs and actionable reports, to keep your business moving in the right direction
3. [Snowplow implementation] [implementation]. We can help you implement Snowplow, by identifying all the relevant actions you should be tracking (and capturing via the Snowplow tags), and working with your technical team to implement the Snowplow infrastructure
4. [Custom development] [custom-dev]. Require an extension to the core Snowplow features set? We work with clients to extend Snowplow to meet their specific needs

[Get in touch] [get-in-touch] with the Snowplow team to discuss your project needs. View our [rate card] [rate-card] for pricing details. 

### Other sources of Snowplow support

As well as supporting clients through our professional services team, we provide lower-level, ad hoc support via

1. Our [Google group] [google-group]
2. The Snowplow [Github repository] [github-repo]. (For technical issues / bug reporting)

[Learn more][analytics] about Snowplow Professional Services.

[analytics]: analytics.html
[reporting]: reporting.html
[implementation]: implementation.html
[custom-dev]: custom-development.html
[rate-card]: rate-card.html
[google-group]: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/snowplow-user
[github-repo]: http://github.com/snowplow/snowplow
[get-in-touch]: /contact/index.html
