services/reporting.md, before:

---
layout: section
category: services
title: KPI and dashboards
weight: 4
---

# KPI and dashboards

We deliver actionable, easy-to-understand KPI and dashbaords on top of Snowplow data that enable your team to make the decisions they need to reach their specific goals.

Learn more about our approach to designing and implementing KPI, dashboards and reporting cubes below:

1. [Context](#context)
2. [Approach](#approach)
3. [Project output](#output)
4. [Learn more](#learn-more)

<a name="context"><h2>Context</h2></a>

When properly designed and delivered, a small set of KPI can enable a team to:

1. Quickly check their progress against plan
2. Spot any issues that emerge early
3. Recommend particular solutions to those issues

KPI are therefore enormously valuable. Unfortunately, KPI, especially KPI based on web analytics data, rarely fulfils the above functions:

1. Teams typically get 'swamped' in web analytics data, making it difficult to see the wood from the trees
2. KPI are not specifically identified around a team's particular goals, or take into account the broader company / product in which they function. As a result, KPI for things like 'user engagement' typically involve rough proxies (e.g. average page views per visit) that do not capture what 'successful engagement' looks like for a particular product / team / company
3. KPI are typically not designed with the levers that a team can pull in mind. As a result, they are not *actionable*: people look at them and think "that's interesting", but the numbers they look at don't lead them to make quick decisions that have a meaningful impact
4. KPIs fail to distinguish different *types* of users and the *type* of activity they are engaged with

<a name="approach"><h2>Approach</h2></a> 

1. We work with our clients to understand (i) their goals, (ii) the key success factors for achieving those goals, (iii) the levers at their disposal for reaching those goals and (iv) how their audience segment and the different kinds of activity their visitors engage in on their websites
2. We look at the complete set of data available to measure progress against those goals, and analyse: (i) what has happened to date, (ii) how relevant different data points are, and (iii) how sensitive to key success factors
3. On the basis of the above we design and mockup an easy to read KPI dashboard, and iterate this with the client. (This may or may not include Snowplow data, as appropriate.)
4. When the client is happy with the dashboard we implement it technically.

<a name="output"><h2>Output</h2></a>

The output of the project is either a working set of dashboards and reports, delivered on a timely basis, or a complete specification for the client's development team to deliver those reports.

<a name="learn-more"><h2>Sounds interesting?</h2></a>

[Get in touch] [get-in-touch] with the Snowplow team to discuss your requirements.

[get-in-touch]: /about/index.html
[rate-card]: rate-card.html
[analytics]: analytics.html
[implementation]: implementation.html
[custom-dev]: custom-development.html

Commit message:

Updated template so that now it supports meta description tags (These are recommended by moz.com crawl of the site.) I then added descriptions for some of the most important pages

services/reporting.md, after:

---
layout: section
category: services
title: KPI and dashboards
description: We design reporting dashboards, cubes and reports on top of Snowplow and related data sets
weight: 4
---

# KPI and dashboards

We deliver actionable, easy-to-understand KPI and dashbaords on top of Snowplow data that enable your team to make the decisions they need to reach their specific goals.

Learn more about our approach to designing and implementing KPI, dashboards and reporting cubes below:

1. [Context](#context)
2. [Approach](#approach)
3. [Project output](#output)
4. [Learn more](#learn-more)

<a name="context"><h2>Context</h2></a>

When properly designed and delivered, a small set of KPI can enable a team to:

1. Quickly check their progress against plan
2. Spot any issues that emerge early
3. Recommend particular solutions to those issues

KPI are therefore enormously valuable. Unfortunately, KPI, especially KPI based on web analytics data, rarely fulfils the above functions:

1. Teams typically get 'swamped' in web analytics data, making it difficult to see the wood from the trees
2. KPI are not specifically identified around a team's particular goals, or take into account the broader company / product in which they function. As a result, KPI for things like 'user engagement' typically involve rough proxies (e.g. average page views per visit) that do not capture what 'successful engagement' looks like for a particular product / team / company
3. KPI are typically not designed with the levers that a team can pull in mind. As a result, they are not *actionable*: people look at them and think "that's interesting", but the numbers they look at don't lead them to make quick decisions that have a meaningful impact
4. KPIs fail to distinguish different *types* of users and the *type* of activity they are engaged with

<a name="approach"><h2>Approach</h2></a> 

1. We work with our clients to understand (i) their goals, (ii) the key success factors for achieving those goals, (iii) the levers at their disposal for reaching those goals and (iv) how their audience segment and the different kinds of activity their visitors engage in on their websites
2. We look at the complete set of data available to measure progress against those goals, and analyse: (i) what has happened to date, (ii) how relevant different data points are, and (iii) how sensitive to key success factors
3. On the basis of the above we design and mockup an easy to read KPI dashboard, and iterate this with the client. (This may or may not include Snowplow data, as appropriate.)
4. When the client is happy with the dashboard we implement it technically.

<a name="output"><h2>Output</h2></a>

The output of the project is either a working set of dashboards and reports, delivered on a timely basis, or a complete specification for the client's development team to deliver those reports.

<a name="learn-more"><h2>Sounds interesting?</h2></a>

[Get in touch] [get-in-touch] with the Snowplow team to discuss your requirements.

[get-in-touch]: /about/index.html
[rate-card]: rate-card.html
[analytics]: analytics.html
[implementation]: implementation.html
[custom-dev]: custom-development.html
