services/snowplow-care.md, before:

---
layout: section
category: services
title: Snowplow Care
weight: 6
---

# Snowplow Care: ongoing support from the Snowplow Professional Services team

<table>
	<tr>
		<th></th>
		<th>Free tier</th>
		<th>Snowplow Care</th>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td><strong>Support provided</strong></td>
		<td><ul><li>Bug fixes via <a href="http://github.com/snowplow/snowplow">Github</a> issues</li><li>Technical and analytics queries via <a href="https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/snowplow-user">Google Groups</a></li></ul> </td>
		<td><ul><li>Direct access to Snowplow development team via Snowplow Care chatroom</li><li>Direct email support</li><li>Direct telephone support</li></ul></td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td><strong>SLA</strong></td><td><ul><li>No SLA</li></ul></td><td><ul><li>Response within 1 working day</li></ul></td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td><strong>Hosting</strong></td><td><ul><li>No hosting</li></ul></td><td><ul><li>Hosting of the applications to instrument the Snowplow data pipeline. (EmrEtlRunner and StorageLoader.)</li></ul></td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td><strong>Data pipeline monitoring and troubleshooting</strong></td><td><ul><li>No monitoring</li></ul></td><td><ul><li>Proactive monitoring of your Snowplow data pipeline</li></ul></td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td><strong>Consulting</strong></td><td><ul><li>No consulting included</li></ul></td><td><ul><li>One day of consulting on signup</li></ul></td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td><strong>Price</strong></td><td><ul><li>Free</li></ul></td><td><ul><li>$1000 per month</li></ul></td>
	</tr>
</table>

Snowplow Care is priced at $1000 per month.

## Sounds interesting?

[Get in touch] [contact] with the Snowplow team to discuss your requirements.


[contact]: /about/index.html

Commit message:

Updated template so that now it supports meta description tags (These are recommended by moz.com crawl of the site.) I then added descriptions for some of the most important pages

services/snowplow-care.md, after:

---
layout: section
category: services
title: Snowplow Care
description: Snowplow Care - let us look after the regular running and maintenance of your Snowplow data pipeline, with our premium care package.
weight: 6
---

# Snowplow Care: ongoing support from the Snowplow Professional Services team

<table>
	<tr>
		<th></th>
		<th>Free tier</th>
		<th>Snowplow Care</th>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td><strong>Support provided</strong></td>
		<td><ul><li>Bug fixes via <a href="http://github.com/snowplow/snowplow">Github</a> issues</li><li>Technical and analytics queries via <a href="https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/snowplow-user">Google Groups</a></li></ul> </td>
		<td><ul><li>Direct access to Snowplow development team via Snowplow Care chatroom</li><li>Direct email support</li><li>Direct telephone support</li></ul></td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td><strong>SLA</strong></td><td><ul><li>No SLA</li></ul></td><td><ul><li>Response within 1 working day</li></ul></td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td><strong>Hosting</strong></td><td><ul><li>No hosting</li></ul></td><td><ul><li>Hosting of the applications to instrument the Snowplow data pipeline. (EmrEtlRunner and StorageLoader.)</li></ul></td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td><strong>Data pipeline monitoring and troubleshooting</strong></td><td><ul><li>No monitoring</li></ul></td><td><ul><li>Proactive monitoring of your Snowplow data pipeline</li></ul></td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td><strong>Consulting</strong></td><td><ul><li>No consulting included</li></ul></td><td><ul><li>One day of consulting on signup</li></ul></td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td><strong>Price</strong></td><td><ul><li>Free</li></ul></td><td><ul><li>$1000 per month</li></ul></td>
	</tr>
</table>

Snowplow Care is priced at $1000 per month.

## Sounds interesting?

[Get in touch] [contact] with the Snowplow team to discuss your requirements.


[contact]: /about/index.html
