---
layout: blog-post
shortenedlink: SnowPlow 0.6.5 released
title: SnowPlow 0.6.5 released, with improved event tracking
tags: snowplow javascript tracker
author: Alex
---

We're excited to announce our next SnowPlow release - version **0.6.5**, a Boxing Day release for SnowPlow!

This is a big release for us, as it introduces the idea of **event types** - every event sent by the JavaScript tracker to the collector now has an `event` field which specifies what type of event it is. This should be really helpful for a couple of things:

1. It should make querying SnowPlow events much easier
2. It should make SnowPlow event data a better fit for JSON-oriented datastores such as MongoDB and Riak

As well as event types, in this release we are also introducing **event IDs**. With this, the ETL phase adds an `event_id` UUID (universally unique ID) to each event row, which should help with subsequent querying.

Here is a taster of how SnowPlow event data looks with the new event types and event IDs:

![events-screenshot] [events-screenshot]

These are not the only improvements in this version - here are the rest:

* We have cleaned up the code for on-page activity tracking ("page pings")
* We have fixed a bug in our code for tracking ad impressions - thanks [Alan Z] [talkspoon]!
* The ETL no longer dies if a raw event has a corrupted querystring (e.g. the `refr=` parameter was not escaped)
* The JavaScript tracker's build script, `snowpak.sh`, now has a combine-only option (no minification), which is helpful for testing purposes
* The JavaScript tracker has a new method, `attachUserId(boolean)`, which can be used to stop the tracker sending a `uid=xxx` parameter
* We have added the ability to override the IP address by passing in an `ip=` parameter on the querystring

Let's take a brief tour through these updates below:

<!--more-->

## 1. Event types

To recap, every event sent by the JavaScript tracker now has an `event` field which specifies what type of event it is. Currently we have six different types of events, which are set out in the table below:

| Type of event    | JavaScript tracker function | `event` field value |
|:-----------------|:----------------------------|:--------------------|
| Page view        | `trackPageView()`           | `page_view`         |
| Page ping        | None (automatic)*           | `page_ping`         |
| Custom event     | `trackEvent()`              | `custom`            |
| Ad impression    | `trackImpression()`         | `ad_impression`     |
| Transaction      | `trackTrans()`              | `transaction`       |
| Transaction item | `trackTrans()`              | `transaction_item`  |

\* for more information on on-page activity tracking, please see the relevant section later in this blog post.

This new event field should make it much easier to query SnowPlow data by the type of event, for example:

[EXAMPLE SQL]

## 2. Event IDs

As stated above, the SnowPlow ETL now attaches a unique ID to each event - specifically a [type 4 UUID] [type4-uuid]. This new `event_id` is much more unique than the existing `txn_id` field, which is a short random number set in the JavaScript tracker (eventually we will start using `txn_id` to check for duplicate events).

You can use the new `event_id` field to unique identify events in your event store, and of course to count distinct events, like so:

[EXAMPLE SQL]

We will be updating our [Analyst's cookbook] [analyst-cookbook] to use `event_id` in any examples which currently (erroneously) use `txn_id`.

## 3. On-page activity tracking

In this release of the JavaScript tracker we have deprecated the old (undocumented) `setHeartBeatTimer()` inherited from piwik.js, and introduced a new function:

    enableActivityTracking(minimumVisitLength, heartBeatDelay)

With activity tracking enabled, "page pings" are sent to SnowPlow every `heartBeatDelay` seconds, as long as the visitor remains active (moving the mouse, clicking etc) on the page. Page pings are not sent until the `minimumVisitLength` seconds have elapsed.

Here is an example configuration:

```javascript
_snaq.push(['enableActivityTracking', 10, 10]); // Ping every 10 seconds after 10 seconds
```

This is still a new/experimental feature - but it should provide some interesting data to start to explore page residency, true bounce rates and so on.

Please note that enabling activity tracking can **significantly** increase the number of SnowPlow events generated, especially with a short `heartBeatDelay`.

## 4. And the rest

The rest of the changes in this release are much smaller, either bug fixes or small preparatory features for future releases:

### Ad impression tracking bug fix

Many thanks to [Alan Z] [talkspoon] @ [VeryCD] [verycd] for spotting a bug in the `trackImpression()` method, which was stopping ad impressions from being logged. This is now fixed.

### ETL resilient against corrupted querystrings

We had a problem with historic versions of the JavaScript tracker, 0.8.0 and 0.8.1, where querystrings were sent through to the SnowPlow collector unescaped. These "corrupted" querystrings caused the ETL phase to die.

We have updated the ETL so that events with corrupted querystrings can be processed successfully: these rows are stored as SnowPlow events, but with a lot of the standard fields empty.

### snowpak.sh combine-only option

To make it easier to hack on the JavaScript tracker, we have updated the build script, `snowpak.sh`, so that it has a "combine-only" option. If you set the combine-only flag on the command line, then the minification step will **not** be run, and debug code will left in. This is helpful for local testing when you want to debug the JavaScript in its pre-minified form.

Here are the usage options for the updated `snowpak.sh` script:

    Usage: ./snowpak.sh [options]

    Specific options:
      -y PATH             path to YUICompressor 2.4.2 *
      -c                  combine only (no minification or removing debug)

    * or set env variable YUI_COMPRESSOR_PATH instead

    Common options:
      -h                  Show this message

### attachUserId(boolean)

The JavaScript tracker has a new method, `attachUserId(boolean)`, which can be used to stop the tracker sending a `uid=xxx` parameter. By default, the JavaScript tracker sends the user ID to the collector via this `uid` parameter; you disable this by calling `attachUserId()` like so:

```javascript
_snaq.push(['attachUserId', false]); // Don't attach &uid=xxx to the querystring
```

This function is not of any immediate use - but it will be part of the configuration for using the new Clojure Collector, which we are currently working on.

### IP address override

Finally, we have added the ability to override the IP address by passing in an `ip=` parameter on the querystring. This one is a little confusing - because there is no option in the JavaScript tracker to send an IP address in the querystring (which is in turn because JavaScript does not know the user's IP address).

Rather, we have added this IP address override ability to cater for future server-side trackers and collectors which _do_ know the user's IP address and want to append it to the querystring themselves.

## Getting help

That's it! If you have any problems with SnowPlow version 0.6.5, please [raise an issue] [issues] or get in touch with us via [the usual channels] [talk-to-us].

[events-screenshot]: /static/img/blog/2012/event_and_event_id_fields.png
[talkspoon]: https://github.com/talkspoon
[verycd]: http://www.verycd.com

[analysts-cookbook]: xxx

[issues]: https://github.com/snowplow/snowplow/issues
[talk-to-us]: https://github.com/snowplow/snowplow/wiki/Talk-to-us