---
layout: blog-post
shortenedlink: Snowplow 0.8.3 released
title: Snowplow 0.8.3 released with unstructured events
tags: snowplow unstructured javascript tracker
author: Alex
category: Releases
---

We're pleased to announce the release of Snowplow **0.8.3**. This release updates our JavaScript Tracker to version 0.11.2, adding the ability to send custom unstructured events to a Snowplow collector with `trackUnstructEvent()`. The Clojure Collector is also bumped to 0.5.0, to include some important bug fixes.

**Please note that this release only adds unstructured events to the JavaScript Tracker - adding unstructured events to our ETL process and storage targets is on the roadmap - but rest assured we are working on it!**

Many thanks to community members [Gabor Ratky] [xxx], [xxx] [xxx] and [xxx] [xxx], all from [XXX] [xxx], for contributing this great feature: Gabor and his team took JavaScript unstructured events from an item on our roadmap to a code-complete feature, big thanks guys! (And if you are interested in how the design and implementation of this powerful feature evolved, do have a read of the [original GitHub pull request] [xxx].)

In the rest of this post, then, we will cover:

1. [What are unstructured events?](/blog/2013/05/13/snowplow-0.8.3-released-with-unstructured-events/#definition)
2. [When to use unstructured events?](/blog/2013/05/13/snowplow-0.8.3-released-with-unstructured-events/#when)
3. [Usage](/blog/2013/05/13/snowplow-0.8.3-released-with-unstructured-events/#usage)
4. [Upgrading](/blog/2013/05/13/snowplow-0.8.3-released-with-unstructured-events/#upgrading)
5. [Roadmap for unstructured events](#roadmap)
6. [Getting help](/blog/2013/05/13/snowplow-0.8.3-released-with-unstructured-events/#help)

<!--more-->

<h2><a name="definition">1. What are unstructured events?</a></h2>

[Custom unstructured events] [unstruct-events] are user events which do not fit one of the existing Snowplow event types (page views, ecommerce transactions etc), and do not fit easily into our existing [custom structured event] [custom-structured-events] format. A custom unstructured event consists of two elements:

* A name, e.g. "Game saved" or "returned-order"
* A set of name: value properties (also known as a hash, associative array or dictionary)

You might recognise what we call custom unstructured events from other analytics tools including MixPanel, KISSmetrics and Keen.io, where they are the primary trackable event type.

<h2><a name="when">2. When to us unstructured events?</a></h2>

Custom unstructured events are great for a couple of use cases:

1. Where you want to track event types which are proprietary/specific to your business (i.e. not already part of Snowplow)
2. Where you want to track events which have unpredictable or frequently changing properties

Note: because unstructured events are *not* currently processed by the ETL and enrichment step, or added to storage, we recommend using [custom structured events] [custom-structured-events] for custom events types, rather than using the new custom unstructured events functionality, if the format of the data you want to store with each custom event works with the custom structured event schema.

<h2><a name="usage">3. Usage</a></h2>

Tracking an unstructured event with the JavaScript Tracker is very straightforward - use the `trackUnstructEvent(name, properties)` function.

Here is an example taken from our codebase:

{% highlight javascript %}
_snaq.push(['trackUnstructEvent', 'Viewed Product',
                {
                    product_id: 'ASO01043',
                    category: 'Dresses',
                    brand: 'ACME',
                    returning: true,
                    price: 49.95,
                    sizes: ['xs', 's', 'l', 'xl', 'xxl'],
                    available_since$dt: new Date(2013,3,7)
                }
            ]);
{% endhighlight %}

We have written a [follow-up blog post] [how-to] to provide more information on using the new `trackUnstructEvent` functionality - please [check this out] [how-to] for more information.

<h2><a name="upgrading"></a>4. Upgrading</h2>


<h2><a name="roadmap">5. Roadmap</a></h2>


<h2><a name="help">6. Getting help</a></h2>

[xxx]: http://todo
[unstruct-events]: http://todo
[struct-events]: http://todo
[how-to]: /blog/2013/05/13/snowplow-unstructured-events-guide/
[custom-structured-events]: https://github.com/snowplow/snowplow/wiki/canonical-event-model#wiki-customstruct
[custom-unstructured-events]: https://github.com/snowplow/snowplow/wiki/canonical-event-model#wiki-customunstruct