---
layout: blog-post
shortenedlink: SnowPlow 0.7.3 released
title: SnowPlow 0.7.2 released, tracking additional data
tags: snowplow javascript tracker
author: Alex
category: Releases
---

We're excited to announce the release of SnowPlow version **0.7.3**. This release adds a set of **16 all-new fields** to our event model:

* A new Event Vendor field
* The Page URL split out into its component parts (scheme, host, port, path, querystring, fragment/anchor)
* The web page's characterset
* The web page's width and height
* The browser's viewport (i.e. visible width and height)
* For page pings, we are now tracking the user's scrolling during the last ping period (four fields)

This release necessarily involves updates to the JavaScript tracker, the Hive ETL process and the Infobright storage table.

As well as adding support for the new fields, this new version introduces some **breaking changes** and deprecations which should be handled carefully by existing installations. We will discuss these first, before detailing the new fields, then the bug fixes and finally the upgrade process.

## Breaking changes and deprecations

The following table tracks the breaking changes and deprecations in this version. **When upgrading to the latest version of the JavaScript tracker (0.10.0), please update your JavaScript tags as per the instructions below to avoid problems.**

| Type of change  | Component               | Change                         | Comment                                |
|:----------------|:------------------------|:-------------------------------|----------------------------------------|
| Breaking change | JavaScript tracker      | `setAccount()` removed         | Use `setCollectorCf()` instead         |
| Breaking change | JavaScript tracker      | `setTracker()` removed         | Use `getTrackerCf()` instead           |
| Breaking change | JavaScript tracker      | `setHeartBeatTimer()` removed  | Use `enableActivityTracking()` instead | 
| Deprecation     | JavaScript tracker      | `trackEvent()` deprecated      | Use `trackStructEvent()` instead       |
| Data change     | S3 & Infobright storage | `event`="custom" changed       | Changed to `event`="struct"            |

The first three changes are simply cleanup: we are removing tracker methods which we previously deprecated some time ago.

The last two changes are us starting to re-structure our event tracking - we are making space in our event model to support unstructured events, which will be coming soon. Please check out our previous blog post, [Help us build out the SnowPlow Event Model] [event-model-blog-post] for more background on this.

<!--more-->

## New fields

We are hugely excited to be including 16 new fields in this release - we believe that these fields should unlock a whole host of new analyses on SnowPlow data.

For completeness, we list out all of the new fields below. Note that all of the new fields are available in both the S3 (aka Hive) and Infobright (aka non-Hive) storage outputs:

| Field              | Datatype | Description                                          |
|:-------------------|:---------|:-----------------------------------------------------|
| `event_vendor`     | string   | Which company or org. defined this event type        | 
| `page_urlscheme`   | string   | Scheme aka protocol, e.g. "https"                    |
| `page_urlhost`     | string   | Host aka domain, e.g. "www.snowplowanalytics.com"    |
| `page_urlport`     | int      | Port if specified, 80 if not                         |
| `page_urlpath`     | string   | Path to page, e.g. "/product/index.html"             |
| `page_urlquery`    | string   | Querystring, e.g. "id=GTM-DLRG"                      | 
| `page_urlfragment` | string   | Fragment aka anchor, e.g. "4-conclusion"             |
| `br_viewwidth`     | integer  | The width of the browser's viewport in pixels        |
| `br_viewheight`    | integer  | The height of the browser's viewport in pixels       |
| `doc_charset`      | string   | The page's character encoding, e.g. "UTF-8"          |
| `doc_width`        | integer  | The total width of the page (incl. non-viewed area)  |
| `doc_height`       | integer  | The total height of the page (incl. non-viewed area) |
| `pp_xoffset_min`   | integer  | Minimum page x offset seen in the last ping period   |
| `pp_xoffset_max`   | integer  | Maximum page x offset seen in the last ping period   |
| `pp_yoffset_min`   | integer  | Minimum page y offset seen in the last ping period   |
| `pp_yoffset_max`   | integer  | Maximum page y offset seen in the last ping period   |

Don't worry if some of these new fields don't make immediate sense based on the descriptions above - we will take a look at each of these fields in the sub-sections below:

### Event vendor

Going forwards, all events will have an `event_vendor` field - to start with, that vendor will be "com.snowplowanalytics" (using the Java package-style naming convention). Adding this field helps us to futureproof SnowPlow, so that we can eventually support:

1. Ingesting proprietary events from third-party systems (e.g. `event_vendor`="com.sendgrid" or "com.appnexus")
2. Ingesting clickstream events from other analytics services (e.g. `event_vendor`="com.adobe" or "com.mixpanel")
3. Tracking custom events defined by a specific SnowPlow user (e.g. `event_vendor`="au.com.asnowplowuser")

### Page URL components

As seen above, we are now splitting the `page_url` into its six component parts (the unprocessed `page_url` field is left unchanged). Having these fields broken out should make it much easier to do page URL-based analyses, such as querying by specific pages or investigating HTTPS traffic.

### Viewport fields

Each event now tracks the current viewport of the browser - in other words, the viewable area (width x height) current available within the browser.

### Document characterset 

Each event now tracks the document's charset where available (not all browsers set this).

### Document width and height

We are now tracking the complete width and height of the current document (aka web page) on each event. This tells you the total width and height of the current page, as perceived by the browser. This measures the whole document - i.e. including the non-viewable part of the document.

### Page ping offsets

These four new offset fields are perhaps the most complex new additions. First of all: these fields are only set if you `enableActivityTracking()` on your site. In a nutshell, activity tracking:

* Silently checks for user activity (mouse movements, scrolling, key presses etc) on a page for a specified time period (e.g. 10 seconds)
* If any user activity was detected in those 10 seconds, the tracker sends a "page ping" back to SnowPlow. (No user activity, no page ping)
* This is then repeated for each new time period, until the user navigates away from the page

In this release we are sending four new offset fields along with each page ping event. These offsets track the **minimum** and **maximum** horizontal and vertical page offsets scrolled to by the user in the last page ping period. In other words: these four fields tell you how far left/right and up/down the user scrolled during the last ping period.

**Simply put: these new offset fields are designed to provide a clear view of how your users scroll around your webpages over time.**

Huge thanks to [Rob Kingston] [kingo55] for providing the original idea and implementation around page ping offsets, and helping us to test our implementation!

## Bug fixes

As well as the new fields introduced above, this release also includes a small set of bug fixes in the JavaScript tracker which are worth noting:

1. Our `logImpression()` method was not working (it was using the wrong argument names) - this has now been fixed.
2. The activity tracking (page ping) behaviour was too fragile: if a single monitoring period elapsed with no activity, then all future monitoring would be cancelled. This could easily lead to on-page activity not being recorded. This has now been fixed

## Upgrading

Upgrading is a three-step process:

### JavaScript tracker

Please update your website(s) to use the latest version of the JavaScript tracker, which is version 0.10.0. As always, the updated minified tracker is available here:

    http(s)://d1fc8wv8zag5ca.cloudfront.net/0.10.0/sp.js

**Don't forget to update your SnowPlow tags as per the updates in Breaking changes and deprecations above.**

### ETL

If you are using EmrEtlRunner, you need to update your configuration file, `config.yml`, to use the latest versions of the Hive serde and HiveQL scripts:

    :snowplow:
      :serde_version: 0.5.4
      :hive_hiveql_version: 0.5.5
      :non_hive_hiveql_version: 0.0.6

### Infobright

If you are using Infobright Community Edition for analysis, you will need to update your table definition. To make this easier for you, we have created two scripts:

    4-storage/infobright-storage/migrate_004_to_006.sh
    4-storage/infobright-storage/migrate_005_to_006.sh

Choose the appropriate script depending on whether your current events table is `events_004` or `events_005`.

Running this script will create a new table, `events_006` (version 0.0.6 of the Infobright table definition) in your `snowplow` database, copying across all your data from your existing `events` table, which will not be modified in any way.

Once you have run this, don't forget to update your StorageLoader's `config.yml` to load into the new `events_006` table, not your old `events` table:

    :storage:
      :type: infobright
      :database: snowplow
      :table:    events_006 # NOT "events_004" or "events_005" any more

Done!

## Getting help

As always, if you do run into any issues or don't understand any of the above changes, please [raise an issue] [issues] or get in touch with us via [the usual channels] [talk-to-us].

[event-model-blog-post]: /blog/2013/02/04/help-us-build-out-the-snowplow-event-model/

[kingo55]: https://github.com/kingo55

[issues]: https://github.com/snowplow/snowplow/issues
[talk-to-us]: https://github.com/snowplow/snowplow/wiki/Talk-to-us