product/index.md, before:

---
layout: section
category: product
title: Overview
weight: 1
---

# What is Snowplow?

Snowplow is the most powerful, flexible, scalable web analytics platform in the world. 

* Direct access to all your customer-level and event-level data
* Data is structured in an easy-to-query format
* Data stored on your own Amazon Web Services account (in S3 and optionally Redshift), so you can query it using *any* tool you want 
* Enterprise-strength. Scales to 100Ms of events per day

Open source

* No vendor lock-in
* Developed by a growing community passionate about data

Snowplow lets you [do more with your data] [do-more-with-your-data]. Find out [what] [do-more-with-your-data]. 

[Get started with Snowplow today] [get-started].

<img src="/static/img/APN_Standard_Technology_Partner.png" title="Amazon Web Services Technology Partner" width="250" />

*Snowplow Analytics is proud to be an Amazon Web Services Technology Partner.*

[do-more-with-your-data]: do-more-with-your-data.html
[get-started]: get-started.html
[amazon-logo]: /static/img/APN_Standard_Technology_Partner.png

Commit message:

Updated template so that now it supports meta description tags (These are recommended by moz.com crawl of the site.) I then added descriptions for some of the most important pages

product/index.md, after:

---
layout: section
category: product
title: Overview
description: Snowplow is the most powerful, flexible, scalable web analytics platform in the world. It gives you direct access to your customer-level and event-level data, so you can perform any analysis on that data.
weight: 1
---

# What is Snowplow?

Snowplow is the most powerful, flexible, scalable web analytics platform in the world. 

* Direct access to all your customer-level and event-level data
* Data is structured in an easy-to-query format
* Data stored on your own Amazon Web Services account (in S3 and optionally Redshift), so you can query it using *any* tool you want 
* Enterprise-strength. Scales to 100Ms of events per day

Open source

* No vendor lock-in
* Developed by a growing community passionate about data

Snowplow lets you [do more with your data] [do-more-with-your-data]. Find out [what] [do-more-with-your-data]. 

[Get started with Snowplow today] [get-started].

<img src="/static/img/APN_Standard_Technology_Partner.png" title="Amazon Web Services Technology Partner" width="250" />

*Snowplow Analytics is proud to be an Amazon Web Services Technology Partner.*

[do-more-with-your-data]: do-more-with-your-data.html
[get-started]: get-started.html
[amazon-logo]: /static/img/APN_Standard_Technology_Partner.png
