analytics/customer-analytics/cohort-analysis.md, before:

---
layout: section
category: analytics
analytics_category: customer
title: Cohort Analysis
weight: 6
---

# Performing cohort analyses with SnowPlow

1. [What is cohort analysis?](#what)
2. [Steps to performing a cohort analysis](#steps)

 <a name="what"><h2>What is a cohort analysis?</h2></a>

A cohort analysis is a longitudal study that compares two or more groups of customers / users (cohorts) over a period of time. The term cohort analysis therefore encompasses a wide variety of analyses:

1. **We can vary our cohort definitions, depending on what we want to test**. (For example, if we wanted to see if customers acquired from particular marketing channels were more valuable over their lifetimes, we'd define our cohorts based on the customer acquisition channel. On the other hand, if we wanted to see if we've got better at converting freemium users to paid users over time, we'd compare cohorts of users who started with the service a long time ago, with those that started more recently: defining our cohorts by month joined.) 
2. **We can vary the metric we are comparing between are cohorts**. (For example, comparing the average lifetime value of customers in each cohort, or the average engagement level.)

For more detail on the variations possible with cohort analyses, see [this Keplar blog post] [varieties-of-cohort-analyses].

 <a name="steps"><h2>Steps to performing a cohort analysis</h2></a>

All cohort analyses can be performed with the following steps:

1. [Cohort definition](#cohort-definition): write a query that links each domain_userid with with the appropriate cohort (group)
2. [Metric definition](#metric-definition): write a query that calculates the required metric for each user
3. [Combine the results](#combinetheresults) from the above two queries to calculate an aggregated metric for each cohort

 <a name="cohort-definition"><h2>1. Cohort definition</h2></a>

Regardless of the type of cohort analysis we want to perform, we start by creating a table that maps domain_userids to cohorts:

{% highlight mysql %}
/* HiveQL / Infobright */
CREATE TABLE user_cohort_map (
	cohort STRING,
	domain_userid STRING
) ;
{% endhighlight %}


### 1a. Defining cohorts by when a user first visits the website

In this case we want to compare users who first visited us in January with those that first visited us in February, March, April etc.

To do this, we need to lookup the date that a user first visited the site (i.e. when `domain_sessionidx`=1, check `collector_dt`) and then group users by month:
	
{% highlight mysql %}
INSERT OVERWRITE TABLE user_cohort_map
SELECT
DATE_FORMAT(MIN(collector_dt, '%Y-%m') AS cohort,
domain_userid
FROM events
WHERE domain_sessionidx=1
GROUP BY domain_userid ;
{% endhighlight %}

The query applies a filter `domain_sessionidx=1` so that we only look at first visits. We then group all the results by domain_userid, so we have one line of data for user. We take the minimum `collector_dt` logged (in case a visit spanned two days).

### 1b. Definine a cohort by when a user first performed a specific action

For many SaaS providers, it is not when a user first visits the site that is really important, but when a user actually signed up for a service, or performed some other specific action for the first time. 

In this case we use a variation of the above query:

{% highlight mysql %}
/* HiveQL / Infobright */
INSERT OVERWRITE TABLE user_cohort_map
SELECT
MIN(DATE_FORMAT(collector_dt, '%Y-%m')) AS cohort,
domain_userid
FROM events
WHERE 
ev_category LIKE '<INSERT RELEVANT CATEGORY e.g. subscription>'
AND ev_action LIKE '<INSERT RELEVANT ACTION e.g. signup>' ;
{% endhighlight %} 

Alternatively we may want to define our cohorts based on the first date a user visited a specific page:

{% highlight mysql %}
/* HiveQL / Infobright */
INSERT OVERWRITE TABLE user_cohort_map
SELECT
MIN(DATE_FORMAT(collector_dt, '%Y-%m')) AS cohort,
domain_userid
FROM events
WHERE 
pageurl LIKE= '<INSERT RELEVANT PAGEURL>' ; 
{% endhighlight %}

### 1c. Definine a cohort by the channel a user was acquired on

This is important if we want to e.g. compare the lifetime value of customers acquired from different channels.

In this case, we need to look again at the first time a user visited the site, see how they were referred to the site, and then classify them by cohort accordingly. If we were interested in compare users who'd found the site organically, vs those from CPC campaigns, vs those referred from 3rd party sites, for example, we'd look at the `mkt_medium` field:

{% highlight mysql %}
/* HiveQL / Infobright */
INSERT OVERWRITE TABLE user_cohort_map
SELECT
mkt_medium AS cohort,
domain_userid
FROM events
WHERE domain_sessionidx=1
GROUP BY mkt_medium, domain_userid ; 
{% endhighlight %}

Alternatively, we might want to distinguish between CPC traffic from Google with other PPC sources. In this case we would use a combination of `mkt_source` and `mkt_medium` to define our cohorts:

{% highlight mysql %}
/* HiveQL / Infobright */
INSERT OVERWRITE TABLE user_cohort_map
SELECT
CONCAT(mkt_source, " / ", mkt_medium) AS cohort,
domain_userid
FROM events
WHERE domain_sessionidx=1
GROUP BY mkt_source, mkt_medium, domain_userid ;
{% endhighlight %}

By including the other marketing fields (`mkt_term`, `mkt_content`, `mkt_name`) we can define cohorts more precisely e.g. to compare users acquired with different keyword combinations, or who had seen different ad versions.

### 1d. Other ways to define cohorts

SnowPlow makes it possible to define cohorts based on a wide variety of criteria, including definitions obtained from data that exists outside of SnowPlow. (This data will need to be uploaded to SnowPlow before it can be used.) For more information, [get in touch] [get-in-touch]


 <a name="metric-definition"><h2>2. Metric definitions</h2></a>

As a second step, we need to define a query that measure the _thing_ we want to compare between our cohorts. We therefore need to populate a table like the one below:

{% highlight mysql %}
CREATE TABLE metric_by_user (
domain_userid STRING,
time_period STRING,
metric_value INT /* May also be FLOAT / DOUBLE */
) ;
{% endhighlight %}

There is a wide range `metric_value`s we might want to compare between cohorts: most either get at how engaged a particular cohort is, or how valuable a particular cohort is. 

### 2a. Measuring user engagement

There are a [wide variety of ways to measure user engagement][user-engagement]. Here we give just a couple of examples:

To start with, we could look at the number of actions / events performed by each user each month:

{% highlight mysql %}
/* Hive / Infobright */
INSERT OVERWRITE TABLE metric_by_user
SELECT
domain_userid,
DATE_FORMAT(collector_dt, '%Y-%m') AS time_period,
COUNT(event_id) AS metric_value
FROM events
GROUP BY domain_userid, YEAR(collector_dt), MONTH(collector_dt) ;
{% endhighlight %}

Alternatively, we might want to just look at the average number of visits per month. (Maybe we're doing the analysis for a search or affiliate site, that aims to build a loyal base of repeat users who visit the site frequently but then get off it quickly onto other sites where they make purchases.)

{% highlight mysql %}
/* Hive / Infobright */
INSERT OVERWRITE TABLE metric_by_user
SELECT
domain_userid,
DATE_FORMAT(collector_dt, '%Y-%m') AS time_period,
COUNT(domain_sessionidx) AS metric_value
FROM events
GROUP BY domain_userid, YEAR(collector_dt), MONTH(collector_dt) ;
{% endhighlight %}

### 2b. Measuring customer value

There are a [wide variety of ways to measure customer value and lifetime value][clv]. Here we give just one example - for a retailer that wants to compare purchase value per month:

{% highlight mysql %}
/* Hive / Infobright */
INSERT OVERWRITE TABLE metric_by_user
SELECT
domain_userid,
DATE_FORMAT(collector_dt, '%Y-%m') AS time_period,
SUM(ev_value) AS metric_value
FROM events
WHERE ev_category LIKE 'ecomm'
AND ev_action LIKE 'buy'
GROUP BY domain_userid,
{% endhighlight %}

### 2c. Other metrics to compare

SnowPlow makes it possible to compare a large number of other metrics. For specific help / questions, [get in touch] [get-in-touch].

<a name="combinetheresults"><h2>3. Combining the results in the final cohort analysis</h2></a>

To perform the actual cohort analysis, all we have to do is to `JOIN` our two tables `user_cohort_map` and `metric_by_user` to aggregate results by cohort by time period so that we can compare them alongside each other:

{% highlight mysql %}
/* Hive / Infobright */
CREATE TABLE cohort_analysis_results (
cohort STRING,
time_period STRING,
metric_value FLOAT /* Can be DOUBLE */
) ;

INSERT OVERWRITE TABLE cohort_analysis_results
SELECT
c.cohort,
m.time_period,
AVG(metric_value)
FROM
user_cohort_map c
JOIN metric_by_user m
ON c.domain_userid = m.domain_userid
GROUP BY c.cohort, m.time_period ;
{% endhighlight %}

Note: this is the same query *regardless* of what cohort definition was chosen in step 1, or what metric definition was chosen in step 2.

In the above case, we've used the `AVG()` function to aggregate the metric over all users in each cohort. This is the most common aggregation function to use with SnowPlow. To use a more unusual function (e.g. a percentile), it may be necessary to write a user-defined-function (UDF) to perform the required aggregation.

For more about cohort analyses and performing them on SnowPlow, view the [blog post series] [cohort-analysis-blog-post-series] on [Keplar LLP] [keplarllp].

[user-engagement]: /analytics/customer-analytics/user-engagement.html
[clv]: /analytics/customer-analytics/customer-lifetime-value.html
[cohort-analysis-blog-post-series]: http://www.keplarllp.com/blog/2012/05/performing-cohort-analysis-on-web-analytics-data-using-snowplow
[get-in-touch]: mailto:contact@snowplowanalytics.com
[keplarllp]: http://www.keplarllp.com
[varieties-of-cohort-analyses]: http://www.keplarllp.com/blog/2012/05/on-the-wide-variety-of-different-cohort-analyses-possible-with-snowplow

Commit message:

Got rid of CamelCase spelling of SnowPlow -> Snowplow Removed fixed price quotes for Javascript tagging Fixed bugs in impelmentation page on pro services

analytics/customer-analytics/cohort-analysis.md, after:

---
layout: section
category: analytics
analytics_category: customer
title: Cohort Analysis
weight: 6
---

# Performing cohort analyses with Snowplow

1. [What is cohort analysis?](#what)
2. [Steps to performing a cohort analysis](#steps)

 <a name="what"><h2>What is a cohort analysis?</h2></a>

A cohort analysis is a longitudal study that compares two or more groups of customers / users (cohorts) over a period of time. The term cohort analysis therefore encompasses a wide variety of analyses:

1. **We can vary our cohort definitions, depending on what we want to test**. (For example, if we wanted to see if customers acquired from particular marketing channels were more valuable over their lifetimes, we'd define our cohorts based on the customer acquisition channel. On the other hand, if we wanted to see if we've got better at converting freemium users to paid users over time, we'd compare cohorts of users who started with the service a long time ago, with those that started more recently: defining our cohorts by month joined.) 
2. **We can vary the metric we are comparing between are cohorts**. (For example, comparing the average lifetime value of customers in each cohort, or the average engagement level.)

For more detail on the variations possible with cohort analyses, see [this Keplar blog post] [varieties-of-cohort-analyses].

 <a name="steps"><h2>Steps to performing a cohort analysis</h2></a>

All cohort analyses can be performed with the following steps:

1. [Cohort definition](#cohort-definition): write a query that links each domain_userid with with the appropriate cohort (group)
2. [Metric definition](#metric-definition): write a query that calculates the required metric for each user
3. [Combine the results](#combinetheresults) from the above two queries to calculate an aggregated metric for each cohort

 <a name="cohort-definition"><h2>1. Cohort definition</h2></a>

Regardless of the type of cohort analysis we want to perform, we start by creating a table that maps domain_userids to cohorts:

{% highlight mysql %}
/* HiveQL / Infobright */
CREATE TABLE user_cohort_map (
	cohort STRING,
	domain_userid STRING
) ;
{% endhighlight %}


### 1a. Defining cohorts by when a user first visits the website

In this case we want to compare users who first visited us in January with those that first visited us in February, March, April etc.

To do this, we need to lookup the date that a user first visited the site (i.e. when `domain_sessionidx`=1, check `collector_dt`) and then group users by month:
	
{% highlight mysql %}
INSERT OVERWRITE TABLE user_cohort_map
SELECT
DATE_FORMAT(MIN(collector_dt, '%Y-%m') AS cohort,
domain_userid
FROM events
WHERE domain_sessionidx=1
GROUP BY domain_userid ;
{% endhighlight %}

The query applies a filter `domain_sessionidx=1` so that we only look at first visits. We then group all the results by domain_userid, so we have one line of data for user. We take the minimum `collector_dt` logged (in case a visit spanned two days).

### 1b. Definine a cohort by when a user first performed a specific action

For many SaaS providers, it is not when a user first visits the site that is really important, but when a user actually signed up for a service, or performed some other specific action for the first time. 

In this case we use a variation of the above query:

{% highlight mysql %}
/* HiveQL / Infobright */
INSERT OVERWRITE TABLE user_cohort_map
SELECT
MIN(DATE_FORMAT(collector_dt, '%Y-%m')) AS cohort,
domain_userid
FROM events
WHERE 
ev_category LIKE '<INSERT RELEVANT CATEGORY e.g. subscription>'
AND ev_action LIKE '<INSERT RELEVANT ACTION e.g. signup>' ;
{% endhighlight %} 

Alternatively we may want to define our cohorts based on the first date a user visited a specific page:

{% highlight mysql %}
/* HiveQL / Infobright */
INSERT OVERWRITE TABLE user_cohort_map
SELECT
MIN(DATE_FORMAT(collector_dt, '%Y-%m')) AS cohort,
domain_userid
FROM events
WHERE 
pageurl LIKE= '<INSERT RELEVANT PAGEURL>' ; 
{% endhighlight %}

### 1c. Definine a cohort by the channel a user was acquired on

This is important if we want to e.g. compare the lifetime value of customers acquired from different channels.

In this case, we need to look again at the first time a user visited the site, see how they were referred to the site, and then classify them by cohort accordingly. If we were interested in compare users who'd found the site organically, vs those from CPC campaigns, vs those referred from 3rd party sites, for example, we'd look at the `mkt_medium` field:

{% highlight mysql %}
/* HiveQL / Infobright */
INSERT OVERWRITE TABLE user_cohort_map
SELECT
mkt_medium AS cohort,
domain_userid
FROM events
WHERE domain_sessionidx=1
GROUP BY mkt_medium, domain_userid ; 
{% endhighlight %}

Alternatively, we might want to distinguish between CPC traffic from Google with other PPC sources. In this case we would use a combination of `mkt_source` and `mkt_medium` to define our cohorts:

{% highlight mysql %}
/* HiveQL / Infobright */
INSERT OVERWRITE TABLE user_cohort_map
SELECT
CONCAT(mkt_source, " / ", mkt_medium) AS cohort,
domain_userid
FROM events
WHERE domain_sessionidx=1
GROUP BY mkt_source, mkt_medium, domain_userid ;
{% endhighlight %}

By including the other marketing fields (`mkt_term`, `mkt_content`, `mkt_name`) we can define cohorts more precisely e.g. to compare users acquired with different keyword combinations, or who had seen different ad versions.

### 1d. Other ways to define cohorts

Snowplow makes it possible to define cohorts based on a wide variety of criteria, including definitions obtained from data that exists outside of Snowplow. (This data will need to be uploaded to Snowplow before it can be used.) For more information, [get in touch] [get-in-touch]


 <a name="metric-definition"><h2>2. Metric definitions</h2></a>

As a second step, we need to define a query that measure the _thing_ we want to compare between our cohorts. We therefore need to populate a table like the one below:

{% highlight mysql %}
CREATE TABLE metric_by_user (
domain_userid STRING,
time_period STRING,
metric_value INT /* May also be FLOAT / DOUBLE */
) ;
{% endhighlight %}

There is a wide range `metric_value`s we might want to compare between cohorts: most either get at how engaged a particular cohort is, or how valuable a particular cohort is. 

### 2a. Measuring user engagement

There are a [wide variety of ways to measure user engagement][user-engagement]. Here we give just a couple of examples:

To start with, we could look at the number of actions / events performed by each user each month:

{% highlight mysql %}
/* Hive / Infobright */
INSERT OVERWRITE TABLE metric_by_user
SELECT
domain_userid,
DATE_FORMAT(collector_dt, '%Y-%m') AS time_period,
COUNT(event_id) AS metric_value
FROM events
GROUP BY domain_userid, YEAR(collector_dt), MONTH(collector_dt) ;
{% endhighlight %}

Alternatively, we might want to just look at the average number of visits per month. (Maybe we're doing the analysis for a search or affiliate site, that aims to build a loyal base of repeat users who visit the site frequently but then get off it quickly onto other sites where they make purchases.)

{% highlight mysql %}
/* Hive / Infobright */
INSERT OVERWRITE TABLE metric_by_user
SELECT
domain_userid,
DATE_FORMAT(collector_dt, '%Y-%m') AS time_period,
COUNT(domain_sessionidx) AS metric_value
FROM events
GROUP BY domain_userid, YEAR(collector_dt), MONTH(collector_dt) ;
{% endhighlight %}

### 2b. Measuring customer value

There are a [wide variety of ways to measure customer value and lifetime value][clv]. Here we give just one example - for a retailer that wants to compare purchase value per month:

{% highlight mysql %}
/* Hive / Infobright */
INSERT OVERWRITE TABLE metric_by_user
SELECT
domain_userid,
DATE_FORMAT(collector_dt, '%Y-%m') AS time_period,
SUM(ev_value) AS metric_value
FROM events
WHERE ev_category LIKE 'ecomm'
AND ev_action LIKE 'buy'
GROUP BY domain_userid,
{% endhighlight %}

### 2c. Other metrics to compare

Snowplow makes it possible to compare a large number of other metrics. For specific help / questions, [get in touch] [get-in-touch].

<a name="combinetheresults"><h2>3. Combining the results in the final cohort analysis</h2></a>

To perform the actual cohort analysis, all we have to do is to `JOIN` our two tables `user_cohort_map` and `metric_by_user` to aggregate results by cohort by time period so that we can compare them alongside each other:

{% highlight mysql %}
/* Hive / Infobright */
CREATE TABLE cohort_analysis_results (
cohort STRING,
time_period STRING,
metric_value FLOAT /* Can be DOUBLE */
) ;

INSERT OVERWRITE TABLE cohort_analysis_results
SELECT
c.cohort,
m.time_period,
AVG(metric_value)
FROM
user_cohort_map c
JOIN metric_by_user m
ON c.domain_userid = m.domain_userid
GROUP BY c.cohort, m.time_period ;
{% endhighlight %}

Note: this is the same query *regardless* of what cohort definition was chosen in step 1, or what metric definition was chosen in step 2.

In the above case, we've used the `AVG()` function to aggregate the metric over all users in each cohort. This is the most common aggregation function to use with Snowplow. To use a more unusual function (e.g. a percentile), it may be necessary to write a user-defined-function (UDF) to perform the required aggregation.

For more about cohort analyses and performing them on Snowplow, view the [blog post series] [cohort-analysis-blog-post-series] on [Keplar LLP] [keplarllp].

[user-engagement]: /analytics/customer-analytics/user-engagement.html
[clv]: /analytics/customer-analytics/customer-lifetime-value.html
[cohort-analysis-blog-post-series]: http://www.keplarllp.com/blog/2012/05/performing-cohort-analysis-on-web-analytics-data-using-snowplow
[get-in-touch]: mailto:contact@snowplowanalytics.com
[keplarllp]: http://www.keplarllp.com
[varieties-of-cohort-analyses]: http://www.keplarllp.com/blog/2012/05/on-the-wide-variety-of-different-cohort-analyses-possible-with-snowplow
